# Spree Analysis [WIP]

## About

As e-commerce business is growing rapidly and with rapid growth comes great competition, so in order to stand out tall in the market it is necessary to know your business standing accurately, to help the business with this, [Spree Edge](https://github.com/spree-edge) has come up with  an updated version of vinsol spree-admin-insights extension, Supported with latest version of spree. It includes all the reports that spree-admin-insights has and that too store specific.

## Key Features

### Financial Analysis - Involves reports around sales, payment methods and shipping etc.

  - **Payment Method Transactions** -  Shows the total amount of payment done with the different payment methods.
  - **Payment Method Transactions Conversion Rate** - Shows the conversion rates and total payment count done with different payment methods per month.
  - **Shipping Cost** - Shows the monthly shipping revenue generated with different shipping methods.
  - **Sales Tax** - Shows the monthly sales tax on different zones.  
  - **Sales Performance** - Shows the total sale price, cost price, promotional discount per month.

### Product Analysis - Insights of product purchase, abandoned cart etc

  - **Best Selling Products** - Shows the total sold count of products.
  - **Cart Additions** - Shows the product present in the user's cart.
  - **Unique Purchases** - Shows the total number of products purchased by different users. 
  - **Returned Products** - Shows the total number of products returned. 

### Promotion Analysis: Reports of promotional costs etc are available.

  - **Promotional Cost** - Shows the number of promotion coupons used by the user and total discount.

### User Analysis: Includes elaborate user analysis.

  - **Users Not Converted** - Shows users who started checkout but not completed order.
  - **Users Who Recently Purchased** - Shows user’s total purchased count and recently purchased date and order number.

## Installation

1. Add this extension to your Gemfile with this line:

    ```ruby
    gem 'spree_analysis'
    ```

2. Install the gem using Bundler

    ```ruby
    bundle install
    ```

3. Copy & run migrations

    ```ruby
    bundle exec rails g spree_analysis:install
    ```

4. Restart your server

  If your server was running, restart it so that it can find the assets properly.
  
##Demo



https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80153749/191724213-ba20dc02-9399-43fb-9017-0ff31c936acb.mp4



## Testing

First bundle your dependencies, then run `rake`. `rake` will default to building the dummy app if it does not exist, then it will run specs. The dummy app can be regenerated by using `rake test_app`.

```shell
bundle update
bundle exec rake
```

When testing your applications integration with this extension you may use it's factories.
Simply add this require statement to your spec_helper:

```ruby
require 'spree_analysis/factories'
```

## Releasing

```shell
bundle exec gem bump -p -t
bundle exec gem release
```

For more options please see [gem-release README](https://github.com/svenfuchs/gem-release)

---

## Contributing

[See corresponding guidelines](https://github.com/spree-edge/spree_analysis/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

Copyright (c) 2022 Spree Edge. released under the [New BSD License](https://github.com/spree-edge/spree_analysis/blob/master/LICENSE)
